# [roadmap.softreck.com](http://roadmap.softreck.com)

In our organization, we are working on two key layers: **Human**-Centric Solutions and **Software**-Centric Solutions. 

### Human-Centric Solutions: 
This layer puts human needs, experiences, and interactions at the forefront. 
We aim to understand the challenges and aspirations of people and design solutions that cater to their specific requirements. 
Our approach focuses on user research, intuitive interfaces, ease of use, and enhancing overall user satisfaction.

### Software-Centric Solutions:
This layer centers around developing robust and scalable software solutions to address complex problems. 
We leverage cutting-edge technologies, programming languages, and software engineering principles to build efficient and reliable systems. 
Our focus lies in developing advanced algorithms, data processing, automation, and optimization to deliver innovative software-centric solutions.

### Infrastructure Centric Solutions:
Refer to technologies or strategies that focus on managing and optimizing the underlying physical and virtual infrastructure.
These solutions aim to enhance the availability, performance, security, and manageability of IT infrastructure components.

By combining both Human-Centric and Software-Centric approaches, we ensure that our solutions not only meet functional requirements but also provide an exceptional user experience.


## Organisation

### Information, Newsletter, Blog, News

+ public org: softreck.com - CEO - strategy, businesss side of projects 
+ news: researcher.pl - researcher - Near Future
+ private:
  + communication
  + contracts
  + platform
  + CFO




# Framework

+ Solutions = Needs + Services
  + Services = Operations + Software
    + Software = Infra + Source Code
      + SourceCode = Community + Conditions
        + Conditions = Standards + Techstack




### source code to a business solution:

The stages from basic conditions to a full-formed business solution:

### Development Environment = Tech Stack + Code Standards + Tools
+ This encompasses the selection of languages, frameworks, and tools used for development, as well as the standards and best practices for writing code.

### Source Code = Tech Conditions + Developer Expertise + Business Requirements
+ Function
+ The creation of the source code is derived from the technology conditions, combined with the expertise of the developers with the business requirements. 
+ Source Code = Development Environment + Developer Expertise + Business Requirements + Data:** The source code is written within the development environment by developers who apply their expertise to design and implement the necessary features based on the business requirements and data.


### Software = Source Code + Testing + Integration
+ Idea as a Code
+ The software is generated by not just the source code, but also by all the testing and integration processes that ensure the code works as intended.
+ Tested Software = Source Code + Quality Assurance (QA)
+ The source code undergoes QA processes, including unit tests, integration tests, and system tests, resulting in a reliable and functional software application.

### Deployment = Software + Infrastructure
+ Continuous Update
+ Deployment includes implementing the software created and preparing the underlying infrastructure to support that software.

+ Deployable Software = Tested Software + CI/CD Processes
+ Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) processes are used to build, test, and prepare the software for deployment.
 
+ Running Software = Deployable Software + Appropriate Infrastructure
+ The final running software is an outcome of deploying the software to appropriate infrastructure, which could be on premises, cloud-based, or hybrid.

### Services = Deployment + Maintenance + Monitoring + User Feedback 
+ Availability
+ Updates
+ improvement
+ Services are a result of not only the deployed software but also the ongoing maintenance and updates made to ensure the services function optimally and remain relevant.

### Solution = Services + User Acceptance
+ Meet business requirements
+ Solve a need
+ Finally, a solution emerges from the services provided, which then has to be accepted and found useful by the users (reflecting their needs).
+ Business Alignment
+ A business solution is the final output, delivering the proposed services effectively while aligning with broader business goals, such as cost reduction, process efficiency, and customer satisfaction goals.

### Business Solution = Solution + Business Value
+ Bring Revenue
+ A business solution not only solves a need but also brings value to the business, such as increasing efficiency, reducing costs, or creating new revenue opportunities.
 


# SDLC

### Develop Source Code
Develop: This is the first step in transforming an idea into a software business solution. The process starts with writing the source code, which involves translating business requirements into a programming language. Developers use integrated development environments (IDEs) and development frameworks to write, test, and debug the code.


### Build Machine Code
Build: This step involves compiling the source code and generating executable files or libraries that can be deployed. Build tools like Maven, Gradle, or Make are used to automate this process and manage dependencies.

### Test Service
Testing is the process of evaluating a system or component during or at the end of the development process to determine whether it satisfies the specified requirements. It helps find bugs and ensure that the intended logic for the solution is working correctly.

### Deploy
Once the code is built, it needs to be deployed to the appropriate computing environments. This can involve deploying to physical servers, virtual machines, containers, or cloud platforms. Infrastructure-as-Code (IaC) tools like Terraform or configuration management tools like Ansible are utilized to automate and ensure consistent deployments.
 Deployment refers to all the processes involved in getting new software or hardware up and running properly in its environment, including installation, configuration, running, testing, and making necessary changes. This will usually be performed on different environments from development to staging and then production.

### Monitor
After deployment, it is crucial to monitor the application and infrastructure to gain insights into performance, availability, and issues. Monitoring tools such as Prometheus, Grafana, or ELK Stack are used to collect and visualize metric and log data, enabling proactive management and troubleshooting.
Monitoring
After the software is deployed and operational, monitoring activities take place to ensure the application's uptime and performance meet the expected levels. The monitoring can notify about any errors that crop up with the system in real time.

### Manage
Managing the infrastructure involves tasks like scaling resources, patching and updating software, managing access and security controls, and ensuring compliance with industry standards. Infrastructure management tools like Kubernetes, Puppet, or Chef streamline these tasks and automate maintenance activities.

## Business Solution
 Business Solution: Finally, the combination of developed code, deployed code to infrastructure, and effective management results in a functional business solution. 
 This solution could be a web application, a mobile app, an API service, or any other software-based product that solves a specific business problem and meets customer needs.

Eventually, with a combination of the steps above, the developed code turns into a business solution that helps solve a specific problem or address a business need. This solution, while in operation, can still undergo, refinement, maintenance and various iterations as needed to continue to meet business requirements effectively in the changing environment.
Feedback & Iterations
Feedback is collected about the software's performance, user experience, and more. Based on this feedback, further iterations and improvements can be made to the software to better meet user needs and business goals.




Below is an example of what the code might look like. Please note that this code needs to be placed in a compatible editor to create the desired graph:

```mermaid
graph LR
	Develop[Develop] --> Build[Build]
	Build --> Deploy[Deploy]
	Deploy --> Monitor[Monitor]
	Monitor --> Manage[Manage]
	Manage --> Solution[Business Solution]

	Develop --> |Writing source code in a specific programming language| Code[Code]
	Build --> |Compiling the source code and generating executable files or libraries| Compiled[Compiled Code]
	Deploy --> |Deploying the built code to the appropriate enviroment(s)| Deployed[Deployed Code]
	Monitor --> |Overseeing performance, availability, and issues| Monitored[Monitored Infrastructure]
	Manage --> |Scaling resources, patching and updating software, managing access, ensuring security and compliance| Managed[Managed Infrastructure]
	Solution --> |A functional software-based product that solves business problem and meets customer needs| Final[Final Business Solution]
```




## Customer

### Human Task-Flow

+ Brand identity
+ Needs Specification
+ Learning
  + Solutions Documentation
  + Schema Definition
  + Standards


## Solutions

Transactions:
+ security
+ integration
+ management
+ payments
+ communication

Exchange:
+ Identity
+ Experience
+ Emotion
+ Data

Interface:
+ Voice
+ Text
+ Video

Function:
+ Teacher
+ Assistant
+ Worker


          

## Solutions, Services, Software, Conditions

### Solution
Human Centric

+ learn
+ support
+ work


### Service
Infrastructure Centric

+ Manage
+ Operate

 
### Software
Operation Centric

+ Develop
+ Deploy
+ Monitor 


### Sourcecode
Development centric
Community and Code Integration 

+ libraries
+ interfaces
+ API communication
+ SDK integration


### Conditions
Idea centric

+ Standards
+ Patterns
+ Research


## Table

|   Develop   |   Deploy   |   Monitor   |   Manage   |
|-------------|------------|-------------|------------|
| Code        | Build      | Log         | Administer |
| Test        | Release    | Performance | Budget     |
| Debug       | Configure  | Security    | Change     |
| Collaborate | Automate   | Availability| Compliance |
| Version     | Orchestrate| Errors      | Audit      |



# Human Centric Solutions

Solutions: Services Driven Approach

  
### Human Interface and Integration

+ wetware.dev - wetware - Human Integration
  + coboarding.com - co onboarding - Identity Transfer
  + cotutorial.com - co tutorial - Experience Transfer 
  + cosensation.com -  co sensation - Emotion Transfer
  + codialog.com - co dialog - Data Transfer


### Transactions
Files & Human Integration.

Transactions:
+ Contracts
+ File Exchange,
+ Files To **Person**

+ SaaS: finofficer.com - Fin Officer - Encrypted Finances
  + Service, Blog: unleaky.com - Un-Leaky - Trusted Foundation
    + SaaS, lockerless
    + veridock
    + docutemp
    + docutan


### Assistant
Vision & Voice

Camera, Speech for Human Integration. 
Human sensor: Eye, Ear 
+ Video To **Eye**
+ Voice To **Command**

+ teleoperator.net - hybrid communication asistant
  + cameramind.com - cameramind
  + cameraMonit.com  - cameraMonit
  + vocamera.com - vocamera
    + VoCoCam.com - VoCoCam      
    

### Worker
Automate Task.

Text To **Task**
+ blog: aipersonalisation.com - AI personalisation -
+ SaaS: [gaiann.com - Personal worker to automate PC-based tasks](https://www.gaiann.com/)
  + edichat.com
    + poloshell.com
      + pologos.com 



### Service Market

#### Development. Text To Service

+ blog: onepersonsaas.com - One Person SaaS - Automate Yourself
+ SaaS: saasisking.com - SaaS is King - Unattended Sales      
  + oneday.run 
    + dialogware.com - dialog ware - Text To Software
      + dialogSync.com - dialog sync -  
        + webstream.com - web stream - Application Streaming  
          + jloads
     

---



# Services Centric Solutions

Services: Operations Driven Approach
Service = Working Software = Infra + Code


### Monitoring

+ Speech & Human Integration
+ Infra & Human Integration
+ Text To **Command**
+ Voice To **Command**

+ moniTalk.com - Voice Command Communication 
  + Mapigration - mapping of Infra objects
  + Infrash - shell scripts to build the environment based on mapigration        
  + ? infreck.com
  + mulitsitemap -structure of websitest
  + webpageshot - screenshosts
  + inframonit.com - server logs, 
  + whoisarch.com - dns changes on whois

### Management

+ askdomainer.com - Ask Domainer - name it! - Network of Names
+ parkingomat.com, UI for infra
+ dynapsys.com
  + recordns.com - DNS records management


### Deployment.

+ deploymat.com - marketplace

+ DevOps
+ NetOps

  


---

# Software

Software Centric Solutions
Software = Infra + Sourcecode
Sourcecode Centric Solutions
Development: Sourcode Driven Approach

+ blog: platformengineer.net - DevOps, NetOps  News
+ development department: softreck.dev - CTO - technical side of project


### Development centric

+ Community
+ libraries
+ interfaces
+ API communication
+ SDK integration

  
### Community
Software Integration.

+ DSL - Domain-Specific language.
  
+ apifoundation.com - open source community      


### Functions, libraries

+ apiSQL
+ dslFunc


### Interface

Data Visualisation, elastic search

+ browseen
+ browseek
  + Promagen
  + apiterminal



---    


# Conditions
Idea centric by Research 

Conditions driven Standards 

+ Standards
  + Schema
  + Patterns

### Documentation

+ flatedit
+ plainedit


### Standards

+ MetaModule.net
+ DSL
+ apiDSL
+ apiMacro
+ apiRPC



### techstack


### patterns


### Schema

